Docs 3404 update storage articles (#1592)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/Storage/Pools/createPoolScale.md

TrueNAS uses ZFS data storage *pools* to efficiently store and protect data.

{{< expand "What's a pool?" "v" >}}
Storage pools attach drives organized into virtual devices called *VDEVs*.
ZFS and TrueNAS periodically review and *heal* when discovering a bad block in a pool.
Drives arranged inside VDEVs provide varying amounts of redundancy and performance.
ZFS and VDEVs combined create high-performance pools that maximize data lifetime.
{{< /expand >}}

## Review Storage Needs

> It is strongly recommended that you review your available system resources and plan your storage use case before creating a storage pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend that you review your available system resources and plan your storage use case before creating a storage pool.
```

* Allocating more drives to a pool increases redundancy when storing critical information.
* Maximizing total available storage at the expense of redundancy or performance entails allocating large-volume disks and configuring a pool for minimal redundancy.
* Maximizing pool performance entails installing and allocating high-speed SSD drives to a pool.

Determining your specific storage requirements is a critical step before creating a pool.

## Creating a Pool
To create a pool using the **Pool Manager** you:

1. Enter a name.
2. Move disks to a data VDEV.
3. Add any other VDEV to the pool you want to include and then add disks to them.
4. Click **Create**

You access the **Pool Manager** from the **Storage Dashboard**. 
Click **Storage** on the main navigation panel on the left of the screen.  
Click **Create Pool** to open the **Pool Manager** screen for new pools.

![CreatePoolPoolManagerScreen](/images/SCALE/22.12/CreatePoolPoolManagerScreen.png "Crete Pool Pool Manager")

> If you already have a pool created on your system you can use either the **Create Pool** button at the top right of the screen or click the **Add to a Pool** button on the **Unused Resources** widget to create a new pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have already created a pool on your system you can use either the **Create Pool** button at the top right of the screen or click the **Add to a Pool** button on the **Unused Resources** widget to create a new pool.
```

{{< /expand >}}
You can add disks to the data VDEV manually or click the **Suggest Layout** button and allow TrueNAS to review all available disks and populate the primary **Data VDevs** with identically sized drives in a configuration balanced between storage capacity and data redundancy. 
If you don't want to use the suggested layout, click **Reset Layout** to clear the data VDEV layout and move the disks back to the **Available Disks** list. 

To manually add disks, select the checkboxes to the left of each disks you want to add and then click the <i class="fa fa-arrow-right" aria-hidden="true" title="Right Arrow"></i>&nbsp; to the left of the data VDEV to move the disks over. See [About Data VDEV Layouts](#about-data-vdev-layouts) or the [Pool Manager Screen]({{< relref "PoolManagerScreens.md" >}}) or more information on data VDEV layouts.

Next, if you want to add another type of VDEV, click **Add Vdev** and select the VDEV type from the options.
Each VDEV type stores data or enables unique features for the pool.
For more details on VDEV types and data VDEV layouts see the [Pool Manager Screen]({{< relref "PoolManagerScreens.md" >}}) article.

> If you have enough disks of the same size available you can [duplicate](#duplicating-a-data-vdev) the data VDEV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have enough disks of the same size available, you can [duplicate](#duplicating-a-data-vdev) the data VDEV.
```

The dialog displays information on the data VDEV layout, the storage size of the VDEV, and the number of disks used and remaing for the VDEV you are repeating.

![RepeatDataVDEVWindow](/images/SCALE/22.12/RepeatDataVDEVWindow.png "Duplicating a Data VDev")

Click **Repeat Vdev** to create and populate a duplicated data VDEV. 
Another VDEV with an identical configuration is called a *mirror* of VDEVs.

If you add more disks of the same size to your system you can add another duplicate data VDEV. 

{{< hint warning >}}
Don't have multiple data vdevs with different numbers of disks in each VDEV.
This complicates and limits the pool capabilities.
{{< /hint >}}

### About Data VDEV Layouts
You can add a data VDEV to a pool in one of several layouts.
{{< expand "Stripe" >}}
A **Stripe** VDEV has each disk storing data. A stripe requires at least one disk and has no data redundancy.
To create a stipe VDEV you must select **Force** to activate the **Create** button on the **Pool Manager** screen.
{{< hint "danger" >}}
Never use a **Stripe** VDEV to store critical data!
A single disk failure results in losing all data in the vdev.
{{< /hint >}}
{{< /expand >}}
{{< expand "Mirror" >}}

> A **Mirror** VDEV stores on both disks, data is identical in each disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **Mirror** VDEV stores on both disks, and data is identical on each disk.
```

> A mirror VDEV requires at least two disks, has the most redundancy, and the least capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mirror VDEV requires at least two disks. It has the most redundancy and the least capacity.
```
